You were the chosen one.
It was said that you would destroy THE
SITH, NOT JOIN THEM.
Bring balance to the force, not leave it
in darkness.
The year is 1996. A young student by the
name of Grant Wall graduates from
Princeton University with a Bachelor of
Arts and Politics. Not long after, he
would take an internship at a newspaper
company called Miami Herald, gaining
experience in the journaling field and
later landed a job at Sports Illustrated
in November of the same year, working as
a fact checker by the end of the year
2000 that work earned him a promotion to
a senior writer. He was a person who
mainly covered stories related to
soccer, but dabbled on a few other
sports here and there. It wasn't until
two years later on the day of February
18th, 2002 where he would write a cover
story about a 17-year-old phenom taking
over the world of basketball and gave
him the title
>> chosen one.
I was living in Seattle in those days
and and covering college basketball.
Um, and I pitched my editor, uh, Greg
Kelly on, you know, I think it might be
time to do a story on this kid, LeBron
James, um, who had had a a really good
ABCD camp, uh, the previous summer and
was being talked about as a high school
junior, is not just the best player in
in America at his age, but a guy who,
you know, I remember Danny A, who was a
GM of the the Celtics, telling me for
that story like there are only two or
three players in the NBA right now that
I would not trade for this high school
junior LeBron James. And I I don't think
the internet was in in the same place it
is today. So it did kind of feel like
you were introducing this kid LeBron
James to the country by putting him on
the cover of the magazine. And uh and so
I remember telling LeBron like your your
life's going to change.
>> I can uh
>> because of this
>> put a lot of smiles back on people's
faces in Cleveland.
>> The 6'6 superstar from Akran St. Vincent
St. Mary's has captured the attention of
fans, scouts, and opponents.
>> He's an allaround great player. He has
it all. Definitely know he's very
athletic. He has a lot of poise and he
can do almost everything. LeBron James
has got the full pack of the soccer this
summer. There's nothing he can't do on
the basketball court. He's got he
understanding of the game. He's very
athletic. He can shoot it. He can handle
it as well. There's no question he's
going to be a great player and he's
really the best high school player I've
ever seen.
>> This was a guy who despite being only 17
years old gained so much popularity that
his team could no longer play at their
home gym. Instead,
>> team can no longer play here in its own
gym. It's too small. They now play their
home games at the University of Akran
where the capacity is about 6,000.
>> A guy who had so much buzz around his
name, NBA allstars like Shaq, Kobe,
Allan Iverson came to his high school
game to see him play. A guy who at the
age of 18 years old was offered $10
million by Reebok under the condition
that he would not speak with Nike or
Adidas. He turned on the offer and later
signed a 90 million deal with Nike. Dan,
in those three weeks, the most
impressive thing to me has been that the
closer we've looked, the better this guy
appears.
>> Well, you know, everybody knew who he
was. He was already famous. He was
bigger than all of us in the gym.
>> So, he's he's coming into the gym. I'm
like, "All right, cool. I want to see
what he got."
>> Mhm.
>> He was cooking like he was 15 or 16
posting, getting to the basket. And I'm
like, "This is going to be a huge issue,
>> right?"
>> You know, for sure.
>> Three more years, huh?
>> Three more years. right there. He
actually motivated. When I saw that, it
motivated me. I'm like, I got to go to
work.
>> With one state title already, to his
credit, James' resolute pursuit of
excellence could very easily lead to
four state championships.
>> I think you're going to see one of the
greatest players ever to play in the
state of Ohio.
>> So, you believe NBA potential without a
doubt?
>> No question.
How much pressure do you have to
$90 million deal? How much pressure do
you have to make day one?
>> We all know who LeBron James is. The
four-time NBA champion, fourtime finals
MVP
>> by just doing what I know how to do.
>> The player with the most points ever in
NBA history. The guy who had one of the
greatest comeback and playoff
performances today. LeBron,
>> there's no pressure. It's no pressure at
all. I've been getting pressured since I
was 10 years old. I don't think there's
no pressure for me because I'm doing
something that I love to do and that's
play the game of basketball
>> and a guy who nowadays is more known as
the sunshine guy.
>> But before all of this, before he
reached the NBA, way before he was given
the title king and regarded as arguably
one of the greatest players of all time,
he was just a kid from Akaname.
a kid who made a name for himself early
on that scouts and fans all over the
world came to the same conclusion. He
was different. I mean, at 16 years old,
he was 6'8, athletic, had the vision and
passing instinct of a guard, could
handle the ball really well, read
defenses, control the pace of the game,
and was a great leader who was extremely
mature for his age. Before he ever
played a single minute in the NBA, who's
already seen as the one who would save
the Cavs franchise. He was framed up to
be the solution. To many, he wasn't just
talented. He was believed to be chosen,
destined for greatness before he ever
had the chance to choose it himself. We
all know what followed after high
school. The impressive career he had,
the accolades and achievements he
reached, the longevity, and the moments
that cemented his place in history. His
journey is one of the clearest modern
examples of the chosen one story. It's
the kind of story that gets you
inspired, hyped, and is a story that
asks a timeless question. What happens
when someone carries destiny on their
back and somehow still manages to outrun
it? Today's video is simple. You
probably have an idea of what we're
talking about. Chosen ones. Some of my
favorite stories of those in real life
and in fiction who was given that title
and either lived up to the legacy placed
upon them or failed before they can
reach it.
>> Hello.
>> Hey, it's Marty Mouser. I'm in the royal
suite. Well, I never talked to an actual
movie star. You know, I'm something of a
performer, too.
>> Are you? Yeah. You don't believe me?
>> I
What? What? You got the Daily Mail in
front of you?
>> This is you?
>> Yeah. The chosen one.
>> It's a nice picture, right?
The chosen one archetype is one of the
oldest story engines we have. In its
simplest form, the trope is built around
the idea of destiny. It centers on a
character who is singled out by
prophecy, fate, or a higher power to
play a big role in the future. and the
role is usually given before the
character has proven themselves. This
type of story isn't something new. It's
a story that's appeared for years across
a plethora of entertainment, whether
that be mythology, literature,
animations, or film. Typically, the most
common story of the chosen one is marked
as being special in some way. This means
having a unique ability, being part of a
rare lineage or a symbolic sign that
identifies them as different. Something
that you also notice with these type of
characters are that they start off as
ordinary, but along the way they come to
represent hope, change, and inspire the
people around them. Characters like Neo
from the Matrix, Ang from Avatar the
Last Airbender are characters who are
chosen in some shape or form to save the
world. The ones who are looked up to as
a symbol of hope and the ones people go
to when situations are dire. There's a
lot of characters that fit the classic
chosen one mold. Deku for My Hero,
Ichigo, Naruto, Link, Superman. But the
one that I always think of when it comes
to a character that embodies the classic
chosen one role is none other than Harry
Potter.
Harry Potter is a fictional character
and the central protagonist of the Harry
Potter film and book series. He's a
wizard who becomes famous in the
wizarding world as the boy who lived
after surviving an attack by Voldemort
as an infant. During this event, his
parents were killed, and Harry was left
with a lightning-shaped scar on his
forehead. At the start of the series,
he's ordinary, but is constantly put
into extraordinary circumstances.
As he enters Hogwarts is later revealed
that his survival is connected to
Voldemort because of his prophecy, which
means that Harry would eventually have
to face him again in the future. If
you've seen or read the story before,
you'd quickly notice that it's not about
being the strongest or being the most
intelligent wizard, but about staying
true to your morals. It's one of the
main reasons why Harry was born to be in
the chosen one role. Not because of
destiny alone, but because of his
choices to act in ways that are opposite
to opposing values. Harry fits the
chosen one archetype to a tea. He
fulfills destiny without being consumed
by it. is chosen by prophecy, marked by
a fate, morally grounded, willing to
sacrifice himself at any time, and
ultimately responsible for restoring
balance.
Outside of Harry, other characters that
fit this mole are characters like Luke
Skywalker, who again started out as
being ordinary, but is later on pulled
into a larger destiny tied to the fate
of the world. Guided by his two mentors,
Obi-Wan and Yoda, he learns that the
deeper power within himself is tested
through loss, temptations, and failure.
And a prophecy-like belief surrounds him
as the one who can restore balance. Then
there's someone like Hal Jordan, or
really any Green Lantern for that
matter, who are chosen for their ability
to overcome great fear, show courage,
and have the willingness to be Earth
protectors. There's many kinds of chosen
one stories. Some are chosen through
bloodlines, others through omens,
visions, or divine intervention. But not
all chosen ones are told to the world.
Some live in the shadow of their own
destiny. Their existence, their purpose,
their importance are not yet known. It's
the kind of story that doesn't tell you
much about the character. Instead, you
find out as you go along, as you see
them face challenges, and as you see
moments of fate approaching upon them.
There's a lot of characters that fit
this description, but the one I come
back to the most is the story of
Perseus.
Perseus is a hero from Greek mythology
who was born as a demigod, someone who
is the son of the god Zeus and the son
of the mortal Da. He's considered one of
the most legendary heroes of ancient
Greece. He's most famous for killing
Medusa and rescuing a woman named
Andromeda from a sea monster. The story
goes like this. Da's father, King
Acryus, was told in the prophecy that
his grandson will one day kill him. To
prevent this, Acryus imprisons Da, but
Zeus visits her in the form of a golden
shower. With the gold falling upon her
skin, this will result in her getting
pregnant, birthing Perseus and raising
him in secret. Eventually, Acryus would
find out and would cast them away from
his kingdom, placing the two in a wooden
chest and sending them off to sea. They
are rescued by a human fisherman named
Dictis, who would take them in and raise
Perseus as his own. Under the rule of
King Polyodactis, who was Dictis
brother, over time, he became obsessed
with Da and tried everything he can to
gain her love. Nothing worked, and every
time he tried, Perseus would be there to
intervene. To get rid of Perseus, he
came up with a plan, pretending to marry
another woman and demanding gifts from
the men on the island. Perseus, young
and eager to prove himself, shouts that
he can bring anything. Even at one
point, claiming he can bring back the
head of Medusa. Big mistake. Polydactus
hears this and is like,
>> "All
right, I'll hold you to that claim."
>> Giving Perseus his first major test.
slay Medusa and bring back her head as a
gift. To succeed, Perseus receives help
from the gods. Athena, goddess of
wisdom, gives him a reflective shield to
reflect Medusa's power. Hermes, the
messenger god, provides him winged
sandals to fly and a sword sharp enough
to cut through gods. Hades grants him
the helmet of darkness, a helmet that
can temporarily turn him invisible. And
lastly, he would go to the nymphs to
receive an enchanted bag to place the
head of Medusa. Perseus finally
confronts Medusa. He uses the reflected
shield to avoid her gaze, beheading her
without being turned to stone. Upon
cutting her head, two things would come
out of her body. Pegasus, a winged
horse, and Prooseidon's child. Before
anyone would notice, who would mount the
winged horse and escape? But on his way
back, he would see a girl chained to a
rock by the sea. This girl would be
Princess Andromeda, and she's been
offered as a sacrifice to a sea monster.
Struck by her beauty, Perseus would save
her by slaying the monster Cedus and ask
for her hand in marriage. Eventually,
the two would get married and upon
returning home from his quest, he would
find that things had gone very bad in
his absence. King Polodactus, who had
sent him on the quest, had been
tormenting his mother and has been
trying to force her into a marriage.
Perseus confronted the king in his
court, which turned into a huge brawl,
but resulted in him using Medusa's head
and turning Polyodactis and his
followers to stone. At this point, years
have passed and Perseus travel to a
place called Argos, hoping to reunite
with his grandfather. However, in a
random athletic competition, throwing a
discus, they accidentally veer off
course and strikes a man in the crowd.
That man coincidentally would be his
grandfather, Acryus. That's a crazy way
to fulfill a prophecy, not going to lie.
Perseus is the perfect example of a
different type of chosen one. A chosen
one that I like to call hidden. Someone
whose destiny exists before it is
revealed, whose importance emerges
through trials. The killing of Medusa
and the rescue of Andromeda all show his
role as a hero. Because of this story, a
lot of works took inspiration. One of
which you've probably heard of before,
Percy Jackson. Unlike the classic chosen
one, this archetype of characters are
often overlooked, an underdog, if you
will. In anime, you got Naruto, who
starts out as an outcast with nobody
realizing the immense power and destiny
sealed within him. Po from Kung Fu
Panda, who's chosen as a dragon warrior
despite being clumsy and inexperienced
with his significance emerging only
through training and perseverance. From
hidden chosen ones, we can naturally
lead into those who are chosen by fate.
But the stories lead to something dark.
Unlike most of the heroes I have listed
before, these characters struggle with
the weight of prophecy, are sometimes
consumed by the dark side. But the
prophecy ending is so jarring that the
character must do things they might
regret in order to reach their goal.
Tragic would be the best word I would
use to describe these type of
characters. Mainly because their
stories, despite being chosen, is not
something that is rewarded, but rather
something that could be considered a
burden.
A character like Paul at Trades from
Dune, prophesized as the Lisa Algib,
gains immense power, but is haunted by
visions and the destructive consequences
of his actions. Anakin Skywalker
inspired by Paul are a lot similar in
the sense that he too is prophesized to
bring balance to the force yet fear and
attachment led him to drift into the
dark side and become Darth Vader.
Gojo shows how overwhelming power and
expectations can isolate a chosen figure
while Guts from Berserk struggles under
the weight of fate and the roles imposed
on him. Facing a destiny marked by
relentless suffering and violence. What
sets these archetypes apart from the
classic hero story or hidden one is what
the story is trying to emphasize. In
these stories, their chosen status is a
lens for exploring how power, prophecy,
or expectation can corrupt, destroy, or
even isolate someone. Whereas hidden
chosen ones gradually discover their
roles and rise to meet it. These
characters reveal the dark potential of
being chosen. That destiny, no matter
how grand, can become a curse. Not all
chosen one stories are about heroism.
Some are cautionary tales exploring the
heavy cost of prophecy and the burden of
expectation and is a different side to
the one we've all become accustomed to.
So whether it's LeBron James, a kid from
Akaran who carried the weight of a
nation's expectations before he even
stepped on the NBA court, Perseus, a
hidden hero whose destiny only revealed
itself through trials and accident. The
story of the chosen one continues to
captivate us. Some are gifted from birth
and molded by prophecy, rising to meet a
destiny with courage. Some are hidden,
who discover their significance through
struggle and belief in themselves. And
then there are those whose choices is a
curse, whose powers isolates them, whose
path is paved with tragedy. We watch
these stories because they reflect the
truth about ourselves, whether ordinary
or extraordinary, recognized or
overlooked. Our choices, our courage,
our perseverance are what ultimately
shapes the legacy we leave behind and
what it means to be
the chosen one.